
CAFA TRAINING DATA  (30-SEP-2013)

This archive contains training data that can be used for the development
of prediction models of the Gene Ontology (GO) terms. The data was
extracted from four different databases (UniProt-GOA, GO, Swiss-Prot,
and BioCyc). Each of these data sets contains a set of protein sequences
(in the FASTA format) as well as experimentally characterized GO terms
(using Molecular Function, Biological Process, and Cellular Component
ontologies) corresponding to these sequences. Note that the GO terms are
not propagated towards the root of the respective ontology. 

The proteins contained in these data sets overlap but the sequence IDs
are not necessarily the same across databases. In some cases, the same
protein may have the same functional annotation in different databases
and in other cases the same protein may have exactly the same
annotation. This is because the databases are maintained by different
biocuration teams. It is important to mention that the information about
the organism (given by NIH taxon ID) from which the protein was taken is
important: two identical protein sequences taken from two different
organisms do not necessarily have the same function (e.g. their binding
partners may be present in one but missing in the other species). 

Other types of data (protein-protein interactions, gene expression,
structure, etc.) can be parsed from a variety of databases. These
resources are discussed in the document

Predrag Radivojac "A (not so) Quick Introduction to Protein Function
Prediction" http://is.gd/U9yg9w

that is posted on the CAFA web site. This document also contains a brief
introduction to proteins, formulation of the protein function prediction
problem and a discussion of the Critical Assessment of Functional
Annotation (CAFA) experiment.
